Those who master water prosper.
We've seen this all the way back to
[music] 8,000 BCE when the irrigation
system in the Fertile Crescent earned it
the title cradle of civilization.
[music]
Jump forward a bit in time to the Panama
Canal.
A 40-mi artificial waterway that
connects the Atlantic and Pacific
oceans, making it crucial to global
trade by cutting long, dangerous sea
journeys to just 10 hours.
On the other side of the planet, the
Three Gorges Dam in China became the
[music] world's biggest single source of
green power.
Today, the potency of water is to be
reckoned with more so than ever. We used
to have a stable climate on this Earth
for most of human evolution. Right now,
we do not.
If you look at the river in a dry
period, it's gentle, it's nice, but then
overnight it becomes like this monster.
This huge deluge of water destroying
houses, killing people. How do you
control this? How do you tame this
monster?
Floods account for nearly half of
natural disasters, and compared to
previous decades, their numbers have
soared.
But ideas around the world have emerged
to disaster-proof cities with mega
projects.
From Japan's flood tunnels
to massive sea walls and fly farms.
And with a projected market of $1.3
trillion,
the business of adaptation is on Wall
Street's radar. Adaptation is still
worth it, is still eminently possible,
and plenty of us will be able to adapt
given we spend [music] the money wisely.
>> [music]
>> Behind and below this unassuming door is
the world's largest underground flood
tunnel system.
The Metropolitan Area Outer Underground
[music] Discharge Channel.
It's tall enough for a space shuttle to
take a bath. This structure helps
protect the Saitama Prefecture, just
outside [music] Tokyo, from floods by
diverting rainwater underground and
spitting it back out into the Edo River.
It took 13 years to construct and cost
roughly $2 billion. Ah.
Since completion, it has been estimated
[music] to reduce flood damage to homes
by Hold on. Let me check my notes here.
90%.
This is Yoshio Miyazaki.
He supervises ongoing construction that
keeps the facility maintained so that it
can accommodate torrents of rainwater.
During heavy rains, five colossal
vertical concrete silos, each 70 m deep,
capture overflow from surrounding
rivers.
The river is then funneled into a 6.3 km
long underground water storage tunnel,
about 50 m below ground. [music]
From there, water flows into a massive
pressure-controlled tank, aptly
nicknamed as the underground temple.
Makes sense to maintain some reverence
when dealing with forces of nature,
after all.
>> [music]
>> Large pumps are able to push water
through these tanks. By keeping this
underground, the space above remains
functional for homes [music] and
businesses.
Japan has invested heavily in mega
projects [music] to protect their
citizens from catastrophes, something
many other nations have not done.
Because sitting atop the forebodingly
named Ring of Fire, a zone of frequent
earthquakes and volcanic eruptions along
the Pacific Rim, can come with
terrifying and unpredictable
consequences.
Japan is one of the most advanced, if
not the most advanced country in the
world when it comes to preparing for
disasters. Every sector of society,
governments, businesses, community
groups, even schools, prepare for
disaster in a way that [music] we don't
see elsewhere.
This is something that's gone on for
more than a century, really since a
enormous earthquake in 1923 killed tens
of thousands of people [music] and
really devastated Tokyo.
Japan's capital is one of the most
popular cities in the world with 37
million people in the metropolitan area.
When we think about Tokyo, it really is
one of the most important city economies
globally, probably second only to New
York in terms of its size, and it
accounts for about 20% of Japan's GDP.
2022 saw the launch of the Tokyo
Resilience Project. This is a flagship
effort and it's aimed at helping Tokyo
be more resilient over the next 100
years to flooding, earthquakes, volcanic
eruptions. And it's on a range of things
like raising the height of seawalls,
moving some infrastructure to higher
ground, adding more levees. And it's an
effort that should see spending of about
110 billion [music] dollars by the
2040s.
One big misconception about adaptation
is that it's some do-gooder thing that
the greens would want us to do.
But the serious people of energy here
just shouldn't.
Cannot chug a nut without the jug.
Wagner, I'm a climate economist at
Columbia Business School.
Climate economists don't just think
about economic losses from disasters.
They consider the opportunities as well.
Basically know that the problem are
misguided market forces are not guiding
things in the right direction and while
the problems are economic, the solutions
are too.
One of those [music] solutions is what's
called climate adaptation. What is
adaptation? It is resilience
investments. It's making sure that those
desirable locations, these valuable
properties, maintain their value.
There's a growing recognition, even on
Wall Street, that spending on adaptation
[music] isn't just about preventing
losses. This is an activity that [music]
can potentially also generate revenue.
Figures like Bill Gates have publicly
urged for [music] investment in
adaptation projects for climate
resilience.
Disasters are a hidden cost and they're
huge.
>> [music]
>> We see when a disaster comes in that
there's billions [music] of dollars in
damage, but we don't understand the
economic activity, everyone who's going
to make money from that. That includes
clearing debris, the construction costs
of rebuilding. And I think human beings
are still more in the response, that is
they're more reactive to disasters than
they are [music] getting ahead of them.
The reinsurer Munich Re calculated
[music]
that in 2024, the cost of natural
disasters was about 320 billion dollars.
That was [music] up from the year before
when it was around 268 billion dollars.
About 90% of losses are related to
weather risks, typhoons, hurricanes,
flooding.
Adaptation is like a business
anticipating a market downturn by taking
an early bet to diversify, reinvest, or
build cash reserves to weather future
disruptions.
Mega projects are really high stakes.
They're often changing a geography,
potentially displacing communities,
[music]
and having an enormous impact on a local
environment. [music]
But there's evidence that adaptation
projects have helped reduce losses.
The Netherlands is a really striking
example. Here, some studies indicate the
benefit of activities like dike
construction along the nation's
coastline already greatly exceeds the
cost. And one analysis forecasts avoided
losses from coastal flooding could be as
much as 21 billion dollars by 2100.
The Dutch are such experts on flood
mitigation, they've even started
exporting it.
Witteveen + Bos is one Dutch engineering
firm with 23 offices across nine
countries,
including one in Jakarta, Indonesia,
the fastest sinking megacity in the
world, where the decisions around
adaptation and resilience are playing
out in real time. This is the old
seawall when I was a kid.
So, we had the structure to protect us,
but the seawater kept coming, coming,
and coming.
>> [music]
>> Jakarta is the worst possible place to
build a city. It's built on very, very
soft soils, and if you build anything on
top of those soils, the city will start
sinking. This means we have to keep the
sea out of the city, and therefore,
think about seawalls.
My name is Victor Coenen, sometimes
called Mr. Seawall.
I would warn against building seawalls
everywhere,
but yeah, this is the reputation I have.
One notable Vitaviam and Boskalis mega
project [music]
is the reconstruction of the iconic
Afsluitdijk, a dam and causeway that
protects the Netherlands from the North
Sea.
Here in Jakarta, they're bringing their
expertise to build a new seawall.
Indonesia's giant seawall is a is a
project that's been talked about since
at least 1995.
But, what we've seen from President
Prabowo Subianto is a massive
escalation. Previously, this had been
considered as maybe a $10 billion
project. Now, he's talking about an $80
billion program over 20 years to build a
seawall as long as about 310 miles.
Victor Coenen has been working on
Indonesia's flood projects since 2012. A
seawall, if you look at examples all
over the world, will cost you about $100
million US dollar for a very simple one
per kilometer, and that's a lot of
money.
Seawalls are pretty straightforward.
They're walls in the sea. They absorb
and deflect waves, but they can also
cause erosion and harm people and
ecology. Big seawalls create big
problems.
You You close off ports. You will close
off fishing communities. They will lose
access to their fishing grounds.
Also, what does the regional communities
want? What are their needs? What are
their ambitions? So, if you design a
seawall,
it probably starts not with the
technical side of things.
A simple high wall is inexpensive and
stops the waves, but blocks access to
the ocean. A wider sloped wall creates
more coastline for communities to use.
Build it offshore and you keep
coastlines intact.
Options that include land reclamation
allow for other uses, which creates more
value. But to do so takes more time and
money. In most of the designs on
seawalls, you see some form of shape of
a land reclamation because land is
scarce in Java. It's a densely populated
island. So, if you can add a little bit
of land behind the seawall, that's a
good idea. So, many designs include
those land reclamations.
Building seawalls isn't new in
Indonesia. It's it's a place where those
kind of programs have happened
previously.
What's different here with President
Subianto's plan is its scale and what he
would hope is a definitive defense to
protect that island.
>> [music]
>> So, this place where we're standing now
is a reclaimed land.
This is Tiara Salsabila. She's a coastal
engineer at Vitavin and Boss.
And she's showing us different seawalls
along Jakarta's coast.
Here in Kali Baru, where she was born
and raised, is a newer seawall that
allows for recreational use. So, when I
was a little girl, this
uh dike where where we're standing now
was not available yet.
With this huge space, everything changed
[music] and I could see the change
clearly from no space to a huge space
for people to use for leisure.
But as we learned earlier, not all
seawalls are the same.
So we are currently at Luar Batang area
and now I'm standing on the seawall, the
very thin seawall. Here it is even not
safe and there's no space. So yeah, it
is very different. And then compared to
the existing seawall in Kalibaru, this
seawall is not strong at all.
When we think about Indonesia and its
really unique geography, this collection
of of islands, you can understand why
infrastructure projects are necessary.
It needs bridges, ports, roads.
But those projects have often also had
another purpose.
We've seen successive leaders [music]
promise lavish projects, big spending on
major pieces of infrastructure as a way
of commanding voter attention. Of
course, you could also simply relocate
the entire capital.
No big deal. What we've seen more
recently is an acceleration of efforts
to develop a new capital city. Nusantara
is intended to provide a new capital for
Indonesia that's free from those
challenges that Jakarta faces. Nusantara
would be an entirely new city built from
scratch, meant to avoid the threat of
coastal flooding altogether.
Former Indonesian president Joko Widodo
struggled to finance this project in the
final years of his term. An effort that
current president Prabowo Subianto has
taken on in addition to the new seawall.
The Nusantara project right now, the
official estimate is for $29 billion.
The [music] expectation though is that
it'll cost a lot more than that.
Sounds a lot like another mega a
hampered by high expenses, doesn't it?
There are still many options on the
table for a seawall, and I wouldn't be
able to put a bet on which design at
this moment
>> [music]
>> is a preferred design. Over the past
three decades, there's been at least 25
iterations of this new seawall, like
this one in the shape of the eagle-like
demigod Garuda. The idea was this would
be the new capital of Indonesia with the
presidential palaces and the ministerial
offices.
But in the end, this design was
considered too ambitious.
But even if Jakarta manages to complete
its never-ending seawall project, the
island [music] capital will continue to
sink.
Jakarta's problem isn't just the rising
sea, it's also the extraction of
groundwater. [music]
Traditionally, Jakartans would pump up
their own water from the underground. It
was [music] clean, it was available, and
it was for free.
But over time, more and more pumping has
meant that the ground above sinks, a
process called land subsidence. [music]
And as long as the government doesn't
efficiently address the issue by
providing reliable freshwater
alternatives, sinking will continue.
Indonesia simply can't [music] spend on
climate-proofing projects in the same
way that we'd see in a developed [music]
economy like Japan.
It's trying to boost growth, trying to
handle things like high youth
unemployment. It's in a very different
position to be able to fund
climate-proofing projects.
When it comes to adaptation, governments
have to take many economic and social
factors into consideration.
And the cost can be [music] hard to
swallow. It's not always the case that
the big, expensive infrastructure
projects deliver [music] the best
results.
There are certainly instances where
smaller projects, restoring wetlands for
[music] example, can help mitigate the
impacts of floods even better than maybe
a huge seawall project.
Take sponge cities.
Green spaces within urban landscapes
that absorb water by capturing and
storing rainwater and reducing runoff.
They began in China and have popped up
across the globe.
Inexpensive solutions like this are not
only effective, but easily replicable
across cities around the world.
But affordable flood solutions don't
stop there.
Sometimes what it takes is really
thinking outside the box.
Like in Nairobi, Kenya,
where there's something new buzzing.
That is a pupa. Pupa.
Into a pupa.
When I first learned about black soldier
fly farming,
I thought it was a godsend for the waste
problems that urban areas have.
Godsend might not be the first thing
that comes to mind, but stay with me
here.
Nairobi is a global hub.
Driven by migration, it's expected to
double its population of 5 million by
2050.
And more than half the residents live in
informal settlements where
infrastructure lags far behind that
rapid growth.
Mukuru is among the largest. Flash
floods are a common occurrence in this
region.
A major cause is we do not have proper
channels for drainage, and often the few
drains that are available are blocked by
garbage.
Like many informal settlements in
Nairobi, Mukuru has no regular waste
collection.
Enter the flies.
So the project begins with young people
moving from door to door to collect
household waste so that it does not end
up on the street.
They then segregate this waste and the
recyclables are then sold.
What remains mostly is the organic waste
which they then bring to the black
soldier fly unit.
They shred it and they put it in crates.
They then inoculate the crates with the
eggs of the black soldier fly.
Larvae break down organic waste rapidly
preventing it from piling up in dumps or
drains.
Black soldier flies are great
decomposers. They're detritivores,
meaning they consume dead and decaying
organic material.
So they have two options.
They can either take the larva
and sell it as animal feed.
Or keep it a little longer
and then it grows into adult. It becomes
a black soldier fly.
And then it lays new eggs and the cycle
begins.
The total cost of this [music] project
is around 10 million shillings. That's
about 78,000
US dollars.
Over 1 billion people worldwide live in
informal settlements similar to Mukuru.
The results of this project can lead the
way in raising armies of insects
elsewhere. [music]
The protein that is used for animal
feeds has become very expensive. So the
black soldier fly provides an
alternative source of protein. So
through this we are able to create a
circular economy that turns a problem
into a solution.
So, sometimes adapting to floods doesn't
take a giant wall or tunnel.
Just the right bug in the right place.
The black soldier fly project, just like
Jakarta's mega seawall, won't stop
flooding in the region alone.
But, it may help keep communities on
firmer enough economic ground to plan
for the next adaptation.
Throughout history, humans have tried
[music] to master water, change river
flows, irrigate fields to build up
economies and develop societies. [music]
The challenge now is to tame water flows
to help protect cities, to help protect
the planet from the impacts of climate
change.
But, adaptation is not mitigation.
While these projects can help protect
cities from disasters, they don't
actually [music] stop the ongoing
environmental crisis.
And sometimes [music]
adaptation is not enough.
Especially for small and vulnerable
nations like Jamaica, which was
devastated by Hurricane Melissa, a
category five reminder that more needs
to be done. About $300 billion
more. Adaptation is what people are
saying we're going to have to do as a
result of all those greenhouse gases
[music] going into the air.
And to be clear, even if we stopped
today, we're going to warm substantially
and live with the consequences. [music]
So, we need to do both mitigation and
adaptation. [music]
When you wear a seatbelt, you drive
faster or you're encouraged to bike
faster than you should, but if I'll
secure to the bike helmet, that's moral
hazard.
Okay, back to climate. When we introduce
the specter of wait, we can just adapt,
we can just build sea walls,
we may not need to cut CO2 emissions
that much that quickly after [music]
all.
Not true.
So, the trick of course is to use the
need to adapt to then also motivate us
to cut emissions more.
>> [music]
[music]